.TH pcips 1 "January 2022" "" ""

.SH NAME
.P
pcips - Portable C IPS patch utility

.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
.B
pcips
.RI [ OPTION ]...
-a
.I
PATCH SOURCE
.RI [ DEST ]

.P
.B pcips
-c
.I
PATCH SOURCE MODIFIED

.P
.B
pcips
-j
.I
OUTPUT PATCH1 PATCH2
[...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
Apply, create, or join IPS binary patch files.

.SS Apply a patch
.P
The flag
.B
-a
is used to apply patches to existing files.
.I
PATCH
indicates to the IPS patch file to be applied.
.I
SOURCE
indicates to the original file to which the patch will be applied.
.I
DEST
indicates the file which will contain the result of applying the
patch.

.P
Although it is marked as an optional parameter,
.I
DEST
is required unless the
.B
-i
option is given.  This is a safety feature to prevent accidental corruption
of original files.

.P
The following options may be used when applying patches:

.RS
.P
.B
-f
.RS
Ignore IPS file size limit of 16MB and apply patch anyway.
.RE

.P
.B
-i
.RS
Patch
.I
SOURCE
in place, overwriting it.
.RE
.RE

.SS Create a patch file
.P
The flag
.B
-c
is used to create patch files from an original
.I
SOURCE
file and a
.I
MODIFIED
file.  A patch file describing the changes will be generated and written to
.IR PATCH .

.SS Joining two or more patch files together
.P
The flag
.B
-j
is used to join (concatenate) multiple patch files into a single combined patch
file.  The
.I
OUTPUT
parameter indicates the file into which the combined patch will be written.

.P
Any number of patch files may be joined in this way, and the resulting file
will yield the result of applying each of the input patches sequentially in the
order given.

.SH AUTHOR
.P
Written by David McMackins II.

.SH COPYRIGHT
.P
Copyright (C) 2022 David McMackins II.  License COIL 1.0: Copyfree Open
Innovation License version 1.0.

.P
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO
WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
